# Using Project Wisdom with the VS Code extension

At this time, the Project Wisdom service is only accessible through the Ansible VS Code extension. See [Installing the Ansible VS Code extension][installing-extension] for instructions on how to get started. This new service is a tool that learns and improves over time. As such, the service may not always generate an output that is expected. Your participation in using Project Wisdom will inform the service to improve recommendations over time and improve content quality.

## Providing feedback on the service

Project Wisdom is designed to be improved through feedback on the quality of its suggestions. Technical details of user experiences with Wisdom can be useful in informing further improvements. We request that all Project Wisdom users provide constructive feedback to help improve both the recommendations and user experience. Feedback can be submitted directly through the VS Code extension or to the [Project Wisdom Matrix room: `#project-wisdom:ansible.com`][matrix-room].

## Getting a recommendation

To generate a recommendation from Project Wisdom:

1. For new files:
     1. Select **File->New Text File** in VS Code.
     2. Click **Select a language** in the new file and select `Ansible`.
     3. Save the file with a YAML extension (`.yml` or `.yaml`).
2. For existing `YAML` files:
     1. Click on the language mode in the bottom right corner of the VS Code editor status bar and set to `Ansible`. If you do not see this section in your editor, you can also select **Configure Language Mode** from the **Command Palette**.
3. Verify that you see an entry for `Wisdom` in your status bar. If `Ansible` is already selected as the language, then you may need to reselect the language if `Wisdom` does not appear.
  
   **_NOTE:_** If you see an error message about missing `ansible-lint`, you can install the missing module or disable the linter in **Settings** under **Ansible>Validation>Lint**.

4. Start creating your playbook. Once you have added a task name and press **Enter**, the Project Wisdom service is engaged. You will see a `Processing` status indicator in the bottom right while Project Wisdom is preparing your suggestion.

   **_NOTE:_** You will not see a suggestion until you press **Enter**.

5. Once presented with a suggestion, press `tab` to accept the recommendation or `esc` to ignore it.

## Improving the recommended guidance

Follow these guidelines to improve the likelihood of a quality recommendation:

* Ensure that your YAML is properly formatted. See [Ansible YAML syntax guidelines][yaml-guidelines] for details.
* Avoid context switching within a single playbook file. Wisdom attempts to correlate earlier tasks to the active recommendation, and context switching may lead to incorrect recommendations.
* If you do not get a recommendation that aligns with the intent of your task name, then rewording your statement to provide more information on what is desired may lead to different results. Try adding or removing context to see if you get a better response.

## Matching recommendations to training data

The Project Wisdom machine learning model is trained on content from Ansible Galaxy and other sources.

Given the nature of deep learning technology, as well as the kinds of content used to train and which are generated by Wisdom, it is not possible to identify specific training data inputs that contributed to particular Wisdom output recommendations. Nevertheless, Wisdom includes a feature to help users that are interested in understanding possible origins of generated content recommendations. When Wisdom generates a recommendation, it will attempt to find items in the training dataset that closely resemble the recommendation. In such cases, Wisdom will display licensing information and a source repository link for the training data matches in a panel interface in the VS Code extension.

This feature may enable users to ascertain open source license terms that are associated with related training data. This feature has been implemented even though it is believed to be unlikely that either the training data used in fine-tuning Wisdom or the Wisdom output recommendations themselves are generally protected by copyright, or that Wisdom output reproduces training data content controlled by copyright licensing terms.

In addition to the output specific recommendations described above, the following list of repositories containing data used to perform the fine-tuning of the Wisdom model have been made available: [https://data.ai.ansible.redhat.com/attribution/dataset_repo_list.csv][dataset-list]

Red Hat does not claim any copyright or other intellectual property rights in the suggestions generated by the Project Wisdom service.

[installing-extension]: installing_vs.md
[matrix-room]: https://matrix.to/#/#project-wisdom:ansible.com
[yaml-guidelines]: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/YAMLSyntax.html
[dataset-list]: https://data.ai.ansible.redhat.com/attribution/dataset_repo_list.csv
